---
author: willtheorangeguy
pubDatetime: 2025-07-29T15:22:00Z
title: Bad Things About iPhones
postSlug: bad-things-about-iphones
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
    - living-document
    - bad-things-about
description: A list of things that I really don't like about iPhone.
---

This is an open letter to the Apple iPhone engineers, developers, and designers with things I really wish would change - or if there is a good reason for things to be this way, I would love to know why!

```
Note: this is based on experience with an iPhone 13 Pro Max
```

1. Photos sorts images by receive date, not date taken. Especially with AirDrop. _This can be a blessing and a curse._
2. Apple Maps stops working when you take it offline even, if the map had obviously been background downloaded. _I have moved to Google Maps due to this._
3. Apple Weather stops working offline, even if the weather forecasts had been downloaded. 10 hour old weather is better than no weather.
4. ~~When you go into the Camera from the Lock Screen, there is no way to get out without turning the phone on and off again.~~ _Fixed in iOS 16.2_
5. There is no way to have multiple things on your clipboard. Even Windows and Android can do this.
6. You should be able to select multiple carriage returned lines while editing text. Currently it takes like six tries before it lets you select multiple lines. _Seems to be very hit or miss._
7. Why do I need to shake my phone like an idiot to undo? What is wrong with a good old fashioned undo button?
8. To add to the above, most of the time shake to undo does not work.
9. Autocorrect has much less accuracy when using capitalized words.
10. SwiftKey? sucks.
11. Files does not remember what folder you were just in, or if it does, it’s wrong half the time.
12. If you turn off your phone at night, but have a sleep alarm set, and then turn the phone on after the sleep alarm is already supposed to be off, but you have disabled it from the Apple Watch, then it still rings the alarm. Maybe it should wait a couple seconds before it rings the alarm, so it can check? Plus if I manually turned my phone on, I am obviously awake and do not need the alarm.
13. You can only open addresses from Contacts in the Apple Maps app, even if it’s not installed.
14. No like button to respond to comments in and iCloud Shared Album.
15. ~~Notes will open “deleted” notes on first launch of the app.~~
16. Copying pictures to Windows is almost impossible.
17. Copying files to or from Windows is impossible.
18. If you imported photos to it from another phone while setting up your iPhone, it renames them all with seemingly random names, making sorting through them anywhere but on the phone impossible.
19. iTunes doesn’t know how to properly represent available device storage.
20. The majority of the Memories generated by the Photos app are duplicates.
21. Text manipulation in the Notes app is useless.
22. The contacts app does not allow you to select the email option if the contact has more than one email address. Instead it just goes straight to FaceTime?
23. Turning off wifi in Control Centre doesn’t allow you to turn it back on in Settings unless you go to Control Centre and turn it back on.
24. “apple” gets capitalized to “Apple”.
25. You can not move an already created album to a folder, which kind of defeats the point of organizing and folders. Cool that you can make folders, though.
26. Autofill does not work on most forms. This can not be that hard to implement.
27. The phone screen will dim while reading a PDF. I believe the behaviour for this should be much more like how it is for watching a video.
28. ~~The calculator app lacks so much functionality. Why can’t it be more like the Windows Calculator? Even an elementary school kid could code a calculator app with those levels of features.~~ _Fixed in iOS 18_
29. The Watch app should have all the settings for the Apple Watch on it, not just some cherry picked ones.
30. No QR code scanning history.
31. There is no way to read or write NFC tags that are not used for Apple Pay. A third party app is required.
32. As of iOS 17, the Edit and Save buttons are in the absolutely dumbest spot ever.
33. “Monostyled” is an absolutely dumb name for a font. If they want to add “styled” to one of them they should add it to all.
34. There is no way to archive messages in iMessage!?!
35. No option to add an "incorrectly" spelled word to your dictionary.
36. The keyboard still sucks, even with all the AI stuff. Autocomplete is worse than ever thanks to AI.
37. There is no way to press and hold on the keys on the keyboard to get the symbols underneath, only the accents.
38. When you are selecting dates in the calendar and you switch it to “all day”, it jumps back to your current date.
39. FULL SCREEN DIALOG BOXES POP UP OVER TOP OF NAVIGATION DIRECTIONS - PLEASE EXPLAIN HOW THIS IS NOT A SAFETY CONCERN WHILE YOU ARE DRIVING?
40. Why is Apple so preoccupied with the fact that I want to use my Maps app without cellular connection? I do not need a dialog box to show up each time.
41. A dialog box pops up if Mail cannot connect to the server and validate the certificate if you have low/no internet connection. Does my mail need to be updated that often? Does it really warrant popping a dialog over my whole screen?
